>> Mike North: The fourth
step of autocomplete.
So we have a new file that
has entered the picture here.
The autocomplete file is still there from
the last one that we just worked on,
what's been added is a new
file called the task.ts.
It takes a generator
function as an argument.
And then the job of this
task.js is to allow the yield
within the generator function
that is passed to this
task thing to behave exactly as
await would in an async function.
Tasks should return a promise that
resolves to the last value yielded or
the value returned by
the generator function.
So let me show you how things have
slightly changed in the autocomplete file.
I've kind of lead us right up
to an interesting point here.
>> Mike North: So if we say,
>> Mike North: Diff
exercises autocomplete
4,
>> Mike North: Diffing
the one we have now
against the previous one.
>> Mike North: It's not gonna
show me a nice inline diff.
Can I do this?
>> Mike North: Nope,
>> Mike North: Well,
okay, we'll just do it this way.
>> Mike North: I assumed that that
would work, and now it's not, so well.
We'll just toggle.
So this is the one we
were just working with.
Scroll all the way to the top,
scrolled all the way to the top.
And we'll compress this.
So we've got await fetchPlaceSumaries,
await fetchPlaceDetials.
What has changed here, and
note it's an async function.
In this exercise we're doing right now,
it is an async
function that returns a generator
function that has passed into this task
thing, which is our job to define.
So we don't have awaits here,
we have yields, we have yields.
Now, this still pauses execution,
we've seen how yield works.
We've seen that as we pull things
off of an iterator, we get a value,
and then we can push something into
the next function onto the iterator,
and that will completely assignment here.
So at its core, what we're gonna
do is in this task function,
we're going to be passed
a generator function.
This is your generator function
that you're gonna get.
You're gonna grab an iterator, and
what you're gonna pull off of this
iterator when you call iterator.next,
you're going to get what type?
>> Speaker 2: Promise.
>> Mike North: A promise,
you're gonna get a promise.
When that promise resolves, you're gonna
pull the next promise off the iterator and
push the result of the previous
one in to complete the assignment.
So I just wanna direct you back to
this exercise we looked at here,
sorry, right here, this one.
So remember this iterator.
This would be, if instead of numbers,
let's imagine that these are promises
that we're yielding out, right?
So we get the number 5, but
imagine that's a promise.
And instead of in the next line of code,
calling it.next,
imagine we waited for
that promise to first resolve.
Once it resolves, we have the value
that that promise resolves to.
And instead of pushing 35 in,
we can push in that resolved value.
And that is going to complete
this assignment operation, right?
So on the left side of yield,
whatever that is, now we can write
that almost as synchronous code.
We can say yield a promise,
and when we come back and
resume execution, I will have
whatever you resolve to, right?
So you're gonna do this over and over
again, and walk through the whole promise
chain, until your iterator
indicates that you're done.
And just remember whatever the last result
is that you yielded, and basically,
this will create something that
is exactly like async await.
It'll work just the same way.
>> Speaker 3: It'll be like chained,
right?
>> Mike North: What will be chained?
>> Speaker 3: The awaits?
>> Mike North: The awaits, so awaits,
the behavior we're describing here,
await makes this work
right out of the box.
But I just want you to note if
we look at it side by side,
let me get rid of this temporarily.
If we look at autocomplete from
the last exercise on the left and
from this exercise on the right,
note that they're very,
let me delete the excess type
annotations like I did before,
just to line it up really nicely.
This is pretty lined up here.
So note we've got fetchPlaceSummaries
on this line here, right?
Both sides, fetchPlaceSummaries, the only
difference is we have a yield, and
then it's the same log and then the next
is the map operation and then a yield.
So the body of this generator function
allows up to use a yield in the exact
same way that we were able to
use await in the last exercise.
And that's what let us write something
that under the hood is really a promise
chain as if it's synchronous code.
So we're gonna use this,
we're gonna build this task function,
which is, it's gonna operate this
iterator in such a way that what
we're looking at here kinda just works.
And I'll tell you, it's not that
complicated, you just have to take it step
by step, start by grabbing promises and
waiting for them to resolve.
And sort of iterate through
the promises and sequence and
just pluck a new thing off
the iterator each time.
And then worry about passing
the resolved values back in.
And the solution's about 20 lines of code
or even less, if you're clever, right?
So this is not all that involved.
But when you do this,
you really understand in depth how
generator functions and, how async and
await, and how async functions are all
kind of connected to this idea of
pausing local execution context,
picking back up where you left off.
And you will understand this at a deeper
level than most people end up reaching.
So let's take a full 30 minutes for
this one, and
in particular, this is a great for
this task.js file.
It's a great one to sort of play around,
use your code runner and
write your own little thing down here.
It might be that the way
the autocomplete is
using this task function does not serve
you well until you're mostly finished.
So you could just write your
own thing down here like task,
function, and I'll leave this
on the screen, don't worry.
We can say like yield.
I actually gave you a little helper here.
>> Mike North: That's actually
in this one, in the same module.
So all wait does,
it's a promise around a set timeout.
So you could say yield wait(300)
milliseconds, then console.log.
And you should see these things are done
in order, you're not just plowing straight
through and setting all of
your set timeouts in parallel.
They're going in sequence, one,
two, three, with a proper, you should be
able to witness the promise chaining.
So if you were to save this and run it,
you should be able to see,
>> Mike North: [SOUND] Let's see,
that's the task, this is not running.
>> Mike North: Of course,
it is not implemented yet.
But you should be able to
use this to drive your code.
And I would recommend start
here with something simple,
just using this wait helper to sort
of pause and write something out.
Anything that returns a promise
is fair game to yield.
And that'll help you get some intermediate
steps before you try to just plug it
in as an async await solution.
Cuz you have to be kind of mostly done for
that to give you signals
that you're working out.
So half hour, and
we will go through the solution then.
And I will then take it
the next logical step
forward where we will address
some of the issues you brought
up with each new key stroke canceling any
pending things that might be coming in.
So see you in a half hour.
>> Speaker 3: So with this solution,
it won't cancel it,
but the end state will still be correct?
>> Mike North: By the time
we're done with this solution,
it should work exactly as the end
of the previous solution.
We will have just implemented our
own async and await as an exercise.
And it will open the door for us to
potentially cancel it in the near future.